Crash Dump : It is a file generated by the kernel when a program terminates unexpectedly with a fatal error. Analysing that file to recover the system from that error is known as crash dump analysis.

There are two types of crash dump situations:
   1)OOPS : It is a situation or warning sign that kernel encountered a problem and system is in unhealthy state.
   System Reaction : When the kernel detects the faulty condition, it first stops that process and continues with other processes with less stability and prints logs to console.
   Examples:- 1)Driver code accessing invalid memory address
              2)Null pointer dereference
              3)Out of bounds memory access
              4)Improper use of spinlocks(dead locks)
              5)Interrupt handling issues
              6)Software induced errors like heap overrun
   
   2)Panic : It is a situation where kernel detects a critical and unrecoverable condition or error.
   System Reaction : The kernel will stop all the running processes and can't continue to run in unstable conditions.
   Examples:- 1)Corrupted file system or bootloader files
              2)Init() process is terminated unknowingly
              3)Hardware Failure 
              4)Out-Of-Memory Issue
              5)Ignored OOPS 
***The crash dump situations can be analysed in two ways.
       1)Live Debugging
       2)Post-Mortem Analysis

Post-Mortem Analysis:
     It is a process of analysing the kernel crashes after its occurrence. 
     vmcore : It is a system memory that is captured when the system is crashed to analyze the state of system.
     vmlinux : It is a kernel executable binary file which contains debugging symbols and is used to analyze vmcore.
     1)Kdump : It is a tool which uses kexexc system call to collect data of crash.
             kexec -l ---> Loads new kernel into memory
             kexec -e ---> Switches into new kernel
        How?? :- Kdump is configured before by setting crashkernel boot parameter to reserve a portion of system's RAM for the capture kernel. In the event of crash, kdump uses kexec to boot into second, small and pre-reserved kernel.It copies the memory from crashed kernel into vmcore file.
     2)Crash : It is another tool which provides command line interface that interfaces GNU debigger for post mortem analysis.
     How ?? :-It uses vmlinux and vmcore to analyse the memory state of system during crash.It has many commands to perform various operations in crash utility.
     Commands :- 1)log : Displays message ring buffer 
                 2)bt : Shows the backtrace of kernel stack for task that crashed(sequence of function calls).
                 3)ps : Lists all processes at time of crash
                 4)struct : Displays contents of kernel data structure at specific memory address.
                 5)sym : Translates memory address to symbol name
                 6)dis : Disassembles a function or memory addr into assembly code.
      3)GDB : It is also a tool which can be directly used on vmcore files for fundamental debugging.
      4)hexdump : Used for raw memory inspection.

Live-Debugging Tools:
      1)dmesg : Kernel ring buffer which contains initial oops message and call trace.
      2)journalctl : Used to view kernel logs with better filtering capabilities.
      3)ftrace : Built-in function tracer. It records the sequence of kernel events and function calls that led upto oops.
      How ?? :- First, we need to enable tracing in filesystem sys/kernel/debug/tracing. The function_graph tracer is useful as it shows function entry,exit and timing.
      4)addr2line : Translates addresses found in log file into file name and line numbers.
      5)kprobes : It allows users to insert breakpoints into any kernel function without modifying source code. Used for live debugging.
